## Theoretical discussion

StorymapJS is a unique digital media display as it incorporates real life information with illustrative details. It can convey both reality and fiction with an understandable use of distance. It is very similar to a GIS display. GIS is a geographical information display that allows users to convey information of a place. Johanna Drucker mentioned GIS in her article, “Humanities Approaches to Graphical Displays”, she stated that the system can display more than just geographic information.

“As digital visualization tools have become more ubiquitous, humanists have adopted many applications such as GIS mapping, graphs, and charts for statistical display that were developed in other disciplines. But, I will argue, such graphical tools are a kind of intellectual Trojan horse, a vehicle through which assumptions about what constitutes information swarm with potent force.” This is true with StorymapJS as it can tell a story in time and space using geological locations. It demonstrates answers to the question of “what is” that Drucker discusses in the article. StorymapJS represents the plot of an event and answers the questions of what, where, who, why and how.

StorymapJS can expand the topics of time and space we experience in digital scholarship. It can display the progress made in the existence of time and space through the plot. Instead of writing long paragraphs explaining the locations of a character, event, or story, it can easily be shown with a map. The map conveys the same information but in a more effective manner. For example, a project was created in StorymapJS to show the journey of the character Arya in the show, ‘Game of Thrones’. Without the story map, the viewer would have to watch many seasons of the show or read the novels to see where she has traveled. Story maps are a great way to display a lot of information in an organized and creative manner. 
