<h2> Responding to Drucker</h2>
By: Sydnee Warnock

The Digital Humanities is in a weird situation. Despite the technological nature of the area it seems to be stuck relying on outdated and illogical tools to propel the field forward. Johanna Drucker addresses this over reliance in her paper, Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display, and even attempts to fix the problem. While I believe she is on the right track I think there is an inherent flaw to her approach.

In the paper Drucker argues against the use of the simple graph. The graph is one of the most commonly used tools in education, from elementary school all the way up to university and beyond. Graphs do their job by plotting known values and displaying the patterns or correlations that appear. While this appease the digital aspect of Digital Humanities it leaves out the humanities part. By turning everything into concrete numbers and patterns it ignores the human aspect of the data. Franco Moretti, author of Graphs, Maps, Trees, is one such researcher who seems to be turning away from the interpretation side of Digital Humanities and more towards the quantitative side. In his paper Moretti states “quantitative data are useful because they are independent of interpretation”, and that it, “ falsify existing theoretical explanations.” This seems to run counter to the original idea of the Digital Humanities. Without the interpretation aspect we lose a part of are identity. Drucker saw these changes and decided to counter them.
   
To push back against this encroaching practice Drucker generated numerous examples that used both the simple graph most researchers use and her own version of a graph that contained the more “human” approach to graphing. She wanted to show the limitations of a basic graph. She did this by changing the way she received and understood data. To her, data, or as re-brands it as, capta, is not a given, it is not concrete and is subject to personal interpretation opposed to the concrete nature of a basic data and graphs. By doing this she attempts to reintroduce the humanistic aspect to data,  something that is being pushed aside in recent years.
	
Drucker is not alone in trying to find a solution to this problem. Helle Porsdam wrote a paper on her attempts at finding a balance between the quantitative and qualitative side of Digital Humanities. While she was not successful at finding a balance there is one particular line in her work that I believe encompasses the base problem of quantitative research, “Though all human beings share certain common features - individual lives cannot be aggregated or equated or dealt with quantitatively in any way...we are all different and it counts how each individual human being thinks and feels.” (Pordam). It is this belief that fights back against the quantitative data push. If we ignore this than we are losing the humanities part of Digital Humanities and becoming nothing more than a unique (not even) type of science.
	
Druckers attempt to combine the two side is good but has some problems. She is stymied by the limitations inherit to a graph. Looking at her examples, they are, in my opinion, nonsensical. Even with the explanations she gives for each of her graphs I still do not understand them. This does not take away from her point but, I think adds a new layer to it. Digital Humanities members need to stop using graphs altogether. Graphs are limited by what they can show us as they are only meant to show us data not a persons interpretation of the data. By using a tool created for a different field we are hamstringing ourselves and slowing our advancements in the field. 
	
To fix this problem I suggest we use tools that were created with the Digital Humanities in mind. One such example is Voyant. This online tool can be used to highlight the data in a singular piece of work or multiples. With a variety of tools like word density, links, and word context, Voyant offers many more tools than a simple graph would. 
  
  <iframe style='width: 637px; height: 495px;' src='//voyant-tools.org/tool/CollocatesGraph/?mode=corpus&corpus=2679f97beec8c5019e92cf2859e2c7eb'></iframe>
 
While I do not believe this is the answer to all of the problems, it can not work with data, I do believe it is a step in the right direction. It might be a few more years until Digital Humanities receives a tool perfectly fitted for them.
	 
